INSTALL.md, before:

# Dependencies

## ExifTool

If the `-V` flag is used to transfer ExIF tags to the output file, [ExifTool](https://exiftool.org/) must be installed.

### Linux

Use your package manager to install ExifTool. This will ensure that the ExifTool Perl modules
are correctly installed

### MacOS

Use [brew](https://brew.sh/) package manager to install ExifTool. This will ensure that the ExifTool Perl modules are correctly installed

### Windows

`-V` is not supported on Windows. To transfer tags, simply run
`$ exiftool -TagsFromFile $SOURCE_FILE "-all:all>all:all" $DEST_FILE`
after running Grok.

# Install from Package Manager

1. **Debian** Grok `.deb` packages can be found [here](https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/libgrokj2k)

1. **Archlinux** Grok Archlinux packages can be found [here](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/grok-jpeg2000/)

1. **Homebrew** Grok can be installed using the `grokj2k` brew formula

# Install from Release

Grok releases can be found [here](https://github.com/GrokImageCompression/grok/releases)

# Install from Source

Grok uses [cmake](www.cmake.org) to configure builds across multiple platforms.
It requires version 3.16 or higher.

## Compilers

Supported compilers:

1. g++ : version 10 or higher
1. clang : version 12 or higher
1. MSVC : 2019 or higher
1. Binaryen for WebAssembly

### g++

To ensure that g++ 10 is the default compiler after installation, execute:

`$ sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-10 100 --slave /usr/bin/g++ g++ /usr/bin/g++-10`

### Clang

To ensure that clang-12 is the default compiler after installation, execute:

```
$ sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/c++ c++ /usr/bin/clang++-12 60
$ sudo update-alternatives --config c++
```

The second line brings up a menu allowing a user to configure the default `c++` compiler, which is what is used by `cmake` to configure the project compiler.

### Binaryen

The Emscripten SDK can installed by following [these instructions](https://emscripten.org/docs/getting_started/downloads.html)
The SDK includes a helper script, `emcmake`, to configure cmake.

`emcmake` command:

`$ emcmake cmake -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=OFF -DGRK_BUILD_CODEC=OFF -DGRK_BUILD_LIBPNG=OFF -DBUILD_TESTING=OFF -DGRK_BUILD_CORE_EXAMPLES=ON  PATH/TO/SOURCE`

Now the core example that decompresses from a buffer can be runs as follows:

`$ node --experimental-wasm-threads bin/core_decompress_from_buf.js`

Note: WebAssembly by default is sand-boxed and not allowed to access the file system, so
only the `core_decompress_from_buf` example will run.

## Configuration

To configure a build using the defaults:

```
   $ mkdir /PATH/TO/BUILD
   $ cd /PATH/TO/BUILD
   $ cmake /PATH/TO/SOURCE
```

The `cmake` GUI is recommended, in order to view all `cmake` options.
On Linux distributions, `cmake-gui` will launch the cmake GUI.
On headless systems, `ccmake` (an ncurses application)
may be used to configure the build.


## *NIX

### Shared vs. Static

The `BUILD_SHARED_LIBS` `cmake` flag determines if the `grk_compress`
and `grk_decompress` binaries are linked dynamically or statically.

A static build on most systems will still link dynamically
to `glibc`. For a purely static build, the library can be built
on [Alpine Linux](https://www.alpinelinux.org/). Alpine uses
[musl libc](https://musl.libc.org/), which can be linked to statically.

Note: `cmake` must also be configured with `-DCMAKE_EXE_LINKER_FLAGS="-static"`.

### Fedora

1. if the Grok library has been installed and you would still like to run the binaries
from the build folder, then
`export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/PATH/TO/BUILD/bin:/usr/local/lib64`
must be added to the `.bashrc` file. Note that the build binary folder is
entered before the system binary folder, so that build shared libraries
are given priority when loading at run time.
1. for a static build, the following library must be installed:
`sudo dnf install libstdc++-static`

### Debug/Release

Default build type is `Release`. For a `Debug` build, configure
`cmake` with `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug`

### Build

`$ make -j8`

for a machine with 8 logical cores.

Binaries are located in the `bin` directory.

### Install

Root users may run:

`$ make install`

those with sudo powers can run:

`$ sudo make install`

and everyone else can run:

`$ DESTDIR=$HOME/local make install`

Note: On Linux, after a shared library build, run

`$ sudo ldconfig`

to update the shared library cache.

### Documentation

To build the Doxygen documentation (Doxygen needs to be found on the system):

`$ make doc`

A `HTML` directory is generated in the `doc` directory

### CMake Flags

Important `cmake` flags:

* To specify the install path: use `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/path`, or use `DESTDIR` env variable (see above)
* To build the shared libraries and link the executables against it:

 `-DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS:bool=on` (default: `ON`)

  Note: when using this option, static libraries are not built and executables are dynamically linked.
* To build the core codec : `-DGRK_BUILD_CODEC:bool=ON` (default: `ON`)
* To build the documentation: `-GRK_BUILD_DOC=ON` (default: `OFF`)
* To enable testing :

      $  cmake . -BUILD_TESTING=ON -DGRK_DATA_ROOT:PATH='/PATH/TO/DATA/DIRECTORY'
      $  make -j8
      $  ctest -D NightlyMemCheck

Note : JPEG 2000 test files can be cloned
[here](https://github.com/GrokImageCompression/grok-test-data.git)
If the `-DGRK_DATA_ROOT:PATH` option is omitted,
test files will be automatically searched for in
`${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/../grok-test-data`


## macOS

macOS builds are configured similar to *NIX builds.
The Xcode project files can be generated using:

`$ cmake -G Xcode ....`


## Windows

### Shared vs. Static

The `BUILD_SHARED_LIBS` `cmake` flag determines if the `grk_compress` and `grk_decompress`
binaries are linked to dynamic or static builds of the codec library `libgrokj2k`,
and also if a static or dynamic version of `libgrokj2k` is built on the system.


### Compile

`cmake` can generate project files for various IDEs: Visual Studio, Eclipse CDT, NMake, etc.

Type `cmake --help` for available generators on your platform.

### Third Party Libraries

Third party libraries such as `libtiff` are built by default. To disable
`libtiff` library build and use the version installed on your system, set :

  `-DGRK_BUILD_LiBTIFF:BOOL=OFF`

Commit message:

INSTALL: added note on recursive build
refs #364

INSTALL.md, after:

# Dependencies

## ExifTool

If the `-V` flag is used to transfer ExIF tags to the output file, [ExifTool](https://exiftool.org/) must be installed.

### Linux

Use your package manager to install ExifTool. This will ensure that the ExifTool Perl modules
are correctly installed

### MacOS

Use [brew](https://brew.sh/) package manager to install ExifTool. This will ensure that the ExifTool Perl modules are correctly installed

### Windows

`-V` is not supported on Windows. To transfer tags, simply run
`$ exiftool -TagsFromFile $SOURCE_FILE "-all:all>all:all" $DEST_FILE`
after running Grok.

# Install from Package Manager

1. **Debian** Grok `.deb` packages can be found [here](https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/libgrokj2k)

1. **Archlinux** Grok Archlinux packages can be found [here](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/grok-jpeg2000/)

1. **Homebrew** Grok can be installed using the `grokj2k` brew formula

# Install from Release

Grok releases can be found [here](https://github.com/GrokImageCompression/grok/releases)

# Install from Source

## Perform a recursive clone, as there are submodules

`git clone --recursive https://github.com/GrokImageCompression/grok.git`

## Build

Grok uses [cmake](www.cmake.org) to configure builds across multiple platforms.
It requires version 3.16 or higher.

## Compilers

Supported compilers:

1. g++ : version 10 or higher
1. clang : version 12 or higher
1. MSVC : 2019 or higher
1. Binaryen for WebAssembly

### g++

To ensure that g++ 10 is the default compiler after installation, execute:

`$ sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-10 100 --slave /usr/bin/g++ g++ /usr/bin/g++-10`

### Clang

To ensure that clang-12 is the default compiler after installation, execute:

```
$ sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/c++ c++ /usr/bin/clang++-12 60
$ sudo update-alternatives --config c++
```

The second line brings up a menu allowing a user to configure the default `c++` compiler, which is what is used by `cmake` to configure the project compiler.

### Binaryen

The Emscripten SDK can installed by following [these instructions](https://emscripten.org/docs/getting_started/downloads.html)
The SDK includes a helper script, `emcmake`, to configure cmake.

`emcmake` command:

`$ emcmake cmake -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=OFF -DGRK_BUILD_CODEC=OFF -DGRK_BUILD_LIBPNG=OFF -DBUILD_TESTING=OFF -DGRK_BUILD_CORE_EXAMPLES=ON  PATH/TO/SOURCE`

Now the core example that decompresses from a buffer can be runs as follows:

`$ node --experimental-wasm-threads bin/core_decompress_from_buf.js`

Note: WebAssembly by default is sand-boxed and not allowed to access the file system, so
only the `core_decompress_from_buf` example will run.

## Configuration

To configure a build using the defaults:

```
   $ mkdir /PATH/TO/BUILD
   $ cd /PATH/TO/BUILD
   $ cmake /PATH/TO/SOURCE
```

The `cmake` GUI is recommended, in order to view all `cmake` options.
On Linux distributions, `cmake-gui` will launch the cmake GUI.
On headless systems, `ccmake` (an ncurses application)
may be used to configure the build.


## *NIX

### Shared vs. Static

The `BUILD_SHARED_LIBS` `cmake` flag determines if the `grk_compress`
and `grk_decompress` binaries are linked dynamically or statically.

A static build on most systems will still link dynamically
to `glibc`. For a purely static build, the library can be built
on [Alpine Linux](https://www.alpinelinux.org/). Alpine uses
[musl libc](https://musl.libc.org/), which can be linked to statically.

Note: `cmake` must also be configured with `-DCMAKE_EXE_LINKER_FLAGS="-static"`.

### Fedora

1. if the Grok library has been installed and you would still like to run the binaries
from the build folder, then
`export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/PATH/TO/BUILD/bin:/usr/local/lib64`
must be added to the `.bashrc` file. Note that the build binary folder is
entered before the system binary folder, so that build shared libraries
are given priority when loading at run time.
1. for a static build, the following library must be installed:
`sudo dnf install libstdc++-static`

### Debug/Release

Default build type is `Release`. For a `Debug` build, configure
`cmake` with `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug`

### Build

`$ make -j8`

for a machine with 8 logical cores.

Binaries are located in the `bin` directory.

### Install

Root users may run:

`$ make install`

those with sudo powers can run:

`$ sudo make install`

and everyone else can run:

`$ DESTDIR=$HOME/local make install`

Note: On Linux, after a shared library build, run

`$ sudo ldconfig`

to update the shared library cache.

### Documentation

To build the Doxygen documentation (Doxygen needs to be found on the system):

`$ make doc`

A `HTML` directory is generated in the `doc` directory

### CMake Flags

Important `cmake` flags:

* To specify the install path: use `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/path`, or use `DESTDIR` env variable (see above)
* To build the shared libraries and link the executables against it:

 `-DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS:bool=on` (default: `ON`)

  Note: when using this option, static libraries are not built and executables are dynamically linked.
* To build the core codec : `-DGRK_BUILD_CODEC:bool=ON` (default: `ON`)
* To build the documentation: `-GRK_BUILD_DOC=ON` (default: `OFF`)
* To enable testing :

      $  cmake . -BUILD_TESTING=ON -DGRK_DATA_ROOT:PATH='/PATH/TO/DATA/DIRECTORY'
      $  make -j8
      $  ctest -D NightlyMemCheck

Note : JPEG 2000 test files can be cloned
[here](https://github.com/GrokImageCompression/grok-test-data.git)
If the `-DGRK_DATA_ROOT:PATH` option is omitted,
test files will be automatically searched for in
`${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/../grok-test-data`


## macOS

macOS builds are configured similar to *NIX builds.
The Xcode project files can be generated using:

`$ cmake -G Xcode ....`


## Windows

### Shared vs. Static

The `BUILD_SHARED_LIBS` `cmake` flag determines if the `grk_compress` and `grk_decompress`
binaries are linked to dynamic or static builds of the codec library `libgrokj2k`,
and also if a static or dynamic version of `libgrokj2k` is built on the system.


### Compile

`cmake` can generate project files for various IDEs: Visual Studio, Eclipse CDT, NMake, etc.

Type `cmake --help` for available generators on your platform.

### Third Party Libraries

Third party libraries such as `libtiff` are built by default. To disable
`libtiff` library build and use the version installed on your system, set :

  `-DGRK_BUILD_LiBTIFF:BOOL=OFF`
